>> Josh Long: Now we're
going to build on this.
We've got a toy of an application.
It is an application,
it's just a bit of a contrived one.
That's fine.
But let's imagine that now we're
under the gun to get this thing to
production, right?
We need to get to production.
What does that look like?
And at this point it's a matter of
packaging and making it production worthy.
So to that end, go to your pom xml, okay?
And you wanna add a starter.
And the starter is this one.
Just add.
Org Spring framework boot
spring boot starter actuator
Actuator in physics is a thing that
takes a little bit of energy and
turns it into a lot of energy.
So the actuators are observability module,
right?
One of the things that
sets spring boot apart and
one of the reasons it's become so popular
is because even from day one it was
designed in such a way that you
could take it to production.
It was not just cool looking code, it was
actually code that would integrate with
the rest of your infrastructure, with
the rest of your operations and so on.
Or better, it would actually level up
your operations because it would demand
observability in a way that most
applications don't by default.
So once you've got actuator
on the class path,
we're going to do something you shouldn't
do in production, but that we want to see.
So add this property file,
this property value,
it's called management endpoints,
web exposure, include equals * and
then restart your application.
I'm gonna close the SQL files here, okay?
I'm assuming we're all
on the same page there.
So let's just keep it down to these two.
And notice that I haven't changed
anything in the Java code.
I've just added the starter for
the actuator and
I've added this one property file,
one property value.
What that will let you do is
go to localhost 8080Actuator.
This is the spring boot actuator.
Like I said, we've done a thing you
won't want to do in production.
We, we've told the actuator
make everything visible.
That's what this property is doing.
This is for our demo.
Don't do this in production, okay?
Don't do this last thing in production.
By default, if you don't have this,
you only see three actuator endpoints.
The actuator endpoint is meant to surface
information about the state of your
application, the health,
the well being of your application.
So you can see things like this.
If you go to forward/actuator,
it shows you all the different
endpoints that are available.
This is a hypermedia.
So now we have a list of beans.
You wanna know what Java objects
have been configured by spring?
Go to \slash beans, right?
You can see their dependencies,
their make, the classes that they live in,
their scopes, et cetera.
Right, scopes means how
many of them are there?
Is it just one per application,
is it one per request?
Whatever.
You can look at all the different
cache implementations.
So if you have the spring
cache abstraction set up,
you can see what caches you've configured.
You've got your health endpoint and
the health endpoint gives you a status
code 200 if your service is healthy.
But let's say that you
start up the program and
the database connection pool
can't connect to the data source.
Well then this will reflect that
the status is unhealthy and
it'll show 500 error.
Okay, so this is what you would
feed to your load balancer.
If you're using Kubernetes you
could do probes enabled is true.
That'll enable Kubernetes liveness and
readiness probes for you.
So if I go back over here.
Reload.
There you go.
Now I've got two different sub endpoints
and I go to here liveness and it shows me
this liveness and the readiness and these
behave exactly as they're supposed to.
For Kubernetes you can
show the details for
the health endpoint, show details always.
I'm going to do that.
If you do that and then go back over here,
you can see now we got what is valid,
what's not valid,
what's wrong with something.
If any one of these subsystems, your disk
space, your database, et cetera, returns
false, then the overall aggregate status
will be down and it'll give a 500 error.
You can contribute your
own health indicators.
In fact, just register a bean
of type health indicator.
So if you have some other network service
that you need to be up in order for
you to function, create a health
indicator that pulls that service.
It's literally interface
is called health indicator.
It's a one-method lambda,
you'll know what to do.
It returns a boolean.
Basically the health indicator is very,
very good for guess what, determining
the health of your system and you can
contribute to it as much as you want.
Yeah, look at that.
Do we have valid SSL
certs does the ping work?
Is the service live?
Is a disk space good?
Do we have too much or
too little database?
All this stuff is there for you and each
project will add more and more of these.
If you add MongoDB support,
you'll get a health indicator from
MongoDB on all these different projects.
Add relevant things there.
Okay, back to the actuator
at health we have info.
Info is a tabula rasa, okay?
It's empty info tells you
whatever you want it to tell.
So if I do a management info,
default info env enabled is true, okay?
Do that and
then you do info.best-course-ever=frontend
masters, right?
So I'm going to add that little property.
It's arbitrary.
This is obviously just me
making something up, right?
So I go over here, refresh and now I've
got this custom attribute there called
best course ever equals frontend masters,
right?
So I can now export that.
So imagine you've got
a service in production and
you're trying to identify the service.
You don't know which one it is.
Well, you can put information in here.
You know one way to, you know one good way
to identify a service by its git commit.
You want to know who contributed.
If you got an error in production,
something's going wrong.
Which build am I running?
You want to put the git
information in there.
You know how you do that?
You go to your build back in maven land,
right?
And we preconfigure for
you the git commit ID plugin.
All you gotta do is opt into it.
So I go down here,
gonna copy and paste that.
And we're gonna go back to our build,
pom.xml, and
down here in the plugins section, paste
that and just get rid of the version.
You don't need the version.
Now I'm going to stop the process since
this is a change the dependencies.
I've added something to the classpath.
I'm going to rebuild this.
It's going to fail because I
don't have a git repository.
So I'm going to say git init
git add git commit a m yolo and
then do skip test package or clean package
even to rebuild everything from scratch.
What that's done is it's just added
a git properties file to the code base.
See that file there?
If I cat the file you can see it shows
information about the git commit.
The name, the tag, the date,
all this kind of stuff that is relevant
to my project and
that's going to be compiled into.
Like I said, it's going to be compiled
into the code of the program.
So now if I restart the project having
done nothing else besides add that,
enable that plugin.
Now, the info endpoint gives you
the information about what version of
the commit is running here.
So imagine you make changes,
you do git commit, git push.
It goes to your CI environment,
GitHub Actions,
whatever you do a maven clean package.
Now, it automatically includes the current
build revision in the info endpoint.
Now you can go there and say, okay, this
is Josh, he committed a bug, get blame and
fire, that kind of thing.
So this is very, very useful.
Now you know what's going on,
what else you've got conditions.
So you know that spring boot is
doing a lot of things magically.
It just starts up stuff for you on your
behalf based on cues and clues that
you give it, including property files,
including the definition of certain beans,
including the presence of certain
classes on the class path.
We talked about conditional yesterday.
Well, do you want to know what conditions
are true and which ones are false?
Which ones resulted in the coalesced final
form of the application that you see
before you click on conditions?
This is a report of all
the conditions that were evaluated.
Which ones are positive,
that is to say they resulted in true,
which ones are negative, and
which ones are evaluated unconditionally.
There's no test, it's always true, right?
So let me see.
Negative.
There you go.
Negative matches.
Okay, so for example, because I don't
have rabbitmq in the class path,
I don't have RABBITT template and
therefore the condition for on class
condition in the Rabbit health contributor
auto configuration class was false.
Okay, so go back here.
Now we've got the config props.
And this is for
people who are reasonable and smart and
don't want to waste time paying jetbrains
for extra things that they may not need.
If you want property files.
Autocompletion.
Right, My friend in the front, you know
how we couldn't do auto completion for
the properties?
There's a cheat code here that auto
completion is based on this index that
gets shown right here.
Actuator config props.
So these are the properties to which
spring boot will respond given
the types on the class path.
So if I wanted to change something
about the web server, right?
I could choose.
Let's see,
management.server.base.path, right?
Management server.
Sorry, prefixes.
Management server base path.
Management server.
Inputs that base path, right, okay.
Or if I wanted to change SSL,
I could say spring.ssl.bundle.pem.
Or spring.ssl.bundle.jks.
Or spring.ssl.watch.file.quietperiod,
okay?
So you have all these properties that
if you don't have the plugin that'll do
the autocompletion,
this shows you all the properties
that are available to you anyway.
It's a menu, okay?
And it shows you the values,
if they're not masked off, okay?
Okay, what else we got here?
Env.
I'm not going to click on this one.
You can guess what this is.
It's just your environment variables.
Probably don't want to show that on stage.
That's why I'm saying do not leave
this property open in production.
Actually, I will show it.
Let me see if it shows anything.
Yeah, it masks off a lot of
things actually, so it's okay.
But still, I would definitely not.
This is your property sources.
This is the environment variable,
the environment object I taught you
about yesterday that has the keys and
values in your environment, your system
properties, your environment variables,
your application properties,
all that stuff, all the loggers.
Let's say you're trying to debug
a nasty bug in production and
you've got an error happening and you've
got some debug at level fine or trace,
you want to see that log output, but
it's not set to debug that by default.
You can hit this endpoint and
while the program is running,
update a log level granularity for
a particular package.
So that's pretty good.
What else do we have here?
Heap dump.
You want to get a heap dump to
understand where the memory is and
put it in a profiler, click on,
you guessed it, actuator heap dump.
And that'll download a heap dump that
you can put in a profiler to understand
a stack trace from production.
Thread dump.
You wanna see what threads are waiting and
what are idle and what are doing what.
Just go to /threaddump.
Okay, what else do we got here?
Metrics, aha,
this one's the important one.
Metrics.
Okay, so we have metrics.
This, it gives you guess what.
Metrics.
These are things that show you the state
of different parts of your application,
including how many web sessions
you've got, what your CPU usage is,
how many connections you've got
to the database, et cetera,
how much disk space you've got free,
how long it took for
the applications to start
versus get ready to be ready.
So now let's say I want to look at
how Many requests there have been,
I go to actuator metrics, httpserver
requests, and it says, hey, you've had
12 requests total time across, all them
aggregate was that the max time was this.
And if you want to, you can also break it
down by whether there was an exception,
whether what method was used, what errors
occurred and what endpoints there were.
Okay, now why is this useful?
Well, because it pairs with another
project that we built called Micrometer.
Micrometer is the de facto way to do any
kind of observability in the JVM space.
It is a, as it says, vendor neutral
application observability facade.
You don't need Spring to use this, right?
It's the other way around.
Spring needs this to be workable,
but it's not the other way.
So you can, and people do use
Micrometer independent of Spring.
So, for example, database libraries,
they're not gonna import a whole frame.
You know, if you're a driver,
if you're providing a driver,
you're not gonna import Spring.
That makes no sense.
Spring will consume the database driver.
But because this is just a core spi,
like a logging library, people include
Micrometer in their driver and they emit
metrics that make sense for them, okay?
Aha.
SBOM software bill of materials, right?
You can't deploy mystery meat applications
to production these days, right?
There's actually government regulation
in some areas where you need to be
able to account for
the mystery, like the provenance of
the dependencies in that application.
We see this all the time.
This is a discussion around the Docker
image area as well as in your application
artifacts.
So we have an SBOM support right now.
It's not enabled though.
I need to enable it.
And the way you do that is by
going back to start spring IO,
I'm going to add one dependency here,
SBoM software build of material.
So add that and it'll just give you
a plugin that you can add to your build.
It's the same as the commit ID
thing I showed you earlier.
All you gotta do is add this to your build
and then rebuild the project, right?
I'm going to just paste that in.
And that'll give me a cyclonedx
maven build on material.
So maven skip tests package.
I'm going to do nothing else.
I'm just going to restart the project now,
having added that thing to my build.
Go back over here.
You can see it says now I
have an application, SBoM.
So I go to actuator SBOM application and
look at that.
I have a full manifest of every
dependency and their sha and
where they come from and
the creator of it, and so on, right?
So this is really good.
If you want to do production, then this
is what you need to do these days, right?
This is very, very important.
Your security team wants this,
they just don't.
They maybe didn't, maybe they haven't
told you that yet, but they do.
So this will show you
the provenance of every dependency.
Very, very important.
We learned a lot in the Java community
from the left pad incident from 10 years
ago, whatever it was.
Ever since then it's been very,
very important to be very clear about
what nonsense you have in your build.
Okay, what else do we have in here,
friends?
We've got actuator info.
We talked about that,
we talked about conditions,
we talked about heap dump metrics,
scheduled tasks.
Mappings.
This is another one that's really useful.
Do you want to know what
endpoints are exposed?
You've got controllers.
Those controllers respond to
certain HTTP URL predicates, right,
like a request comes into /customers.
How do I know that that
endpoint is exposed?
Especially if I've got these
routes strewn about my code base,
as is pretty common when you have
a lot of different controllers.
Well, go to mappings.
This will show you all the different
HTTP endpoints and the component
that handles them and the content types
that they accept and produce and so on.
So for example, there's a delete
endpoint for actuator caches.
It is handled by this Java
component right here.
And the method is here,
it's called handle and it takes us.
This is the signature of
the types that it expects,
the request mapping conditions,
etc., right?
So that's the actuator.